Hi, everyone.
This talk is about ONNX.js,
which is a JavaScript library
to run ONNX model in a browser and Node.js.
This is Emma from Microsoft.
Slide two.
slide-2
JavaScript is one of the most important languages.
As a web technology survey reports,
JavaScript is used by 95% of websites,
and it tops the list
of the most popular client-side languages.
Another important scenario using JavaScript
is Electron apps.
Electron enables you to create desktop applications
with pure JavaScript by providing a runtime
with rich native APIs.
If you can build a website,
you can build a desktop app with Electron.
There are a lot of well-known apps built with Electron,
Slack, VS code and GitHub desktop.
All of them are done with Node.js through Electron,
and the experience is pretty good.
Same as websites,
Electron apps are cross-platform,
compatible with Mac, Windows and Linux.
Slide Three.
slide-3
As you know, machine learning has been widely used
for improving product experience.
Can we run machine learning with JavaScript
in client-side applications?
Originally, people have some concern
given that JavaScript isn't designed
for high performance computing
and machine learning requires significant computation
when executing neural network model.
Actually, there are a lot of good techniques
to make JavaScript and machine learning
work quite well together
for developing more engaging and advanced
client-side AI capabilities.
Then, there are some well-known benefits
of using client-side machine learning,
like privacy protection.
Since client-side models work offline,
user do not need to worry about their data
being sent across the Internet.
Realtime analysis,
although client-side hardware may be slow,
it's almost certainly faster
than waiting to retrieve results from a server
when user need to uploading big data in a bad network.
It makes livestream video analysis possible.
Even with no connection to Internet,
client-side machine learning experience wouldn't be broken.
When client-side AI applications
are developed with JavaScript,
AI developers can easily enable
consistent AI experience cross-platform,
accelerate performance by utilizing GPUs
and distribute the experience to users
without asking for any libraries
and drivers installation.
Slide four.
slide-4
Similar to tensorflow.js,
ONNX.js is another framework to provide capability
of running machine learning models with JavaScript.
Model format ONNX.js support is ONNX.
So allow me to give a brief introduction of ONNX first.
ONNX stands for open neural network exchange,
is an open standard
for representing machine learning models.
As a standard,
it defines three things,
an extensible computation graph,
standard data types, and built-in operators.
Here is an example of ONNX model.
The spec supports
both DNN and traditional machine learning models.
Slide five.
slide-5
As an open standard,
the beauty of ONNX is framework interoperability.
As long as a model is trained through a framework
which supports ONNX,
you can convert that model to ONNX format.
Here are some of the popular frameworks
that support ONNX conversion.
For some of these like PyTorch,
ONNX format export is built in natively,
and for others like tensorflow Keras,
there are separate installable package
that can handle conversion.
There is already support for many popular models,
including object detection like Fast R-CNN,
speech recognition and NLP
including brute and other transformers.
Slide six.
slide-6
Since ONNX community was established in 2017
by Microsoft and Facebook,
it has been attracting more and more companies to join.
Today, the ONNX community is made up of over 40 companies.
Last year, ONNX project was accepted into Linux Foundation
as a graduated project.
This is a key milestone in establishing ONNX
as a vendor-neutral open format standard.
Slide seven.
slide-7
ONNX.js is pure JavaScript implementation of ONNX framework
which allows user to run ONNX models
in a browser and Node.js.
ONNX.js optimize model inference on both CPU and GPU
by leveraging several advanced techniques.
I will talk about the detail later.
The graph on the left
is the high-level architecture of ONNX.js.
Graph engine will load ONNX model file,
then interpret it to your model DAG,
then execution engine will call appropriate backend
to execute the model, to get the output.
There are three backends enabled,
two for CPU using JavaScript and WebAssembly separately,
one for GPU using WebGL.
Also ONNX.js provides profiler, logger and other utilities
for easily debugging and analysis.
Except Firefox on Android,
ONNX.js supports all browsers on major platforms.
So you can easily build up your AI applications
across platform with ONNX.js.
slide-8
For running on CPU,
ONNX.js adopts WebAssembly to accelerate the model
at near-native speed.
WebAssembly aims to execute at native speed
by taking advantage of common hardware capabilities
available on a wide range of platform.
It's generally much faster than JavaScript
for heavy workloads in a machine learning task.
JavaScript is dynamically typed and garbage-collected,
which can cause significantly slow down at runtime.
Based on our evaluation, compared to JavaScript,
WebAssembly can improve the performance by over 11 times.
We have enabled WebAssembly as one CPU backend
since ONNX.js was open sourced in 2018.
One year later, tensorflow.js started exploring WebAssembly.
Furthermore, ONNX.js utilize a web worker
to provide multi-thread environment
for operator parallelization.
Originally, web worker was introduced
to unblock UI rendering.
It allows you to create additional thread
to run other long-run computation separately.
ONNX.js leverages web worker to enable parallelization
with heavy operators,
which significantly improve the performance
on machines with multicores.
By taking full advantage of WebAssembly and web worker,
the final result shows over 19 times speedup
on CPU with four cores.
Slide nine.
slide-9
WebGL is adopted for GPU acceleration.
WebGL is a popular standard for accessing GPU capabilities.
It's a JavaScript API
for rendering interactive 2D and 3D graphics
within any compatible web browser.
WebGL is based on OpenGL,
which provides direct access to a computer's GPU.
Graphics creation in JavaScript
is similar to machine learning,
because it requires fast processing power
to animate and draw detailed vectors.
Based on WebGL, ONNX.js enable many optimizations
for reducing data transfer between CPU and GPU,
as well as reducing GPU processing cycle
to further push the performance to the maximum.
Here is a chart showing performance improvements
along with some major optimizations.
Finally,
we were able to reduce the latency of ResNet50 on GPU
by more than three times.
Slide 10.
slide-10
Okay.
If you want to run a model with ONNX.js,
here is end-to-end flow.
You can train a model through any framework supporting ONNX,
convert it to ONNX format using public conversion tools,
then you can inference the converted model with ONNX.js
with this.
Slide 11.
slide-11
This is a HTML example to use ONNX.js,
majorly three steps,
create an ONNX session, a node ONNX model
and generate inputs,
then run the model with the session.run.
Slide 12.
slide-12
Also you can use NPM and bundling tools to use ONNX.js.
Slide 13.
slide-13
To demonstrate Web ML capability
and help user ramp up with ONNX.js easily,
we built up ONNX.js demo website.
Five models are enabled on this website.
Here is a example of running YOLO model in a browser.
You can choose different backend, CPU or GPU.
Since YOLO is realtime neural network
for object detection,
in addition to image detection,
we implemented a realtime detection scenario
through your local camera.
Slide 14.
slide-14
ONNX.js is evolving
and we'd love to embrace your contribution.
Here are three major buckets to make ONNX.js better.
Currently, ONNX.js support limited ONNX operators,
we need to catch up with evolving ONNX spec.
There are still a lot of opportunities
to further optimize ONNX.js performance.
For example, WebNN, web neural network,
is one well promising tech ONNX can integrate.
Some experimental results
have already showed very good performance gain.
Lastly, more demos can help attract more users
by promoting ONNX.js capabilities.
slide-15
Okay.
That's the end.
Hope you enjoy this talk.
Thanks.